---
title: "2023-01-29 Cover me badd: 'There she goes'"
fullTitle: "COVER ME BADD: ‘There She Goes’ (as covered by Sixpence None The Richer)"
source: "In The Loop (https://intheloop929.wordpress.com/2023/01/29/cover-me-badd-there-she-goes-as-covered-by-sixpence-none-the-richer/)"
author:
  - "In The Loop"
published: 2023-01-29
created: 2026-02-14
description: " Introduction: Hello, and welcome back to Cover Me Badd, where we look at good covers, bad covers, and what makes them tick. Now, usually, I try to have these articles revolve around covers of note,…"
tags:
  - "blog"
---
**Read the full original blog post at [In The Loop](https://intheloop929.wordpress.com/2023/01/29/cover-me-badd-there-she-goes-as-covered-by-sixpence-none-the-richer/)**


<!--

*“You’re my love, you’re my star above / And every day is a dreamy day of daydreaming of you”*

**Introduction:**

Hello, and welcome back to Cover Me Badd, where we look at good covers, bad covers, and what makes them tick. Now, usually, I try to have these articles revolve around covers of *note,* and because of that, it narrows down the kinds of covers that could end up on this list. A random one-off cover by a band doing a live performance on poorly-recorded concert footage isn’t gonna cut it; no, it needs to be a cover that’s accumulated some notoriety or significance in the music world, whether it be a cover that was released as a single, or a cover that became so popular that it eclipsed the original in popularity. But y’know, sometimes it’s not so clear-cut, and even I’ve struggled with some of my choices. You can probably tell based on which articles have the most scribbled-down, on-the-nose intros. But after the extremely heavy past few articles I had to write, I figured we should start things off with something lighter. And boy, we’re really going light here.

In 1990, the alternative rock scene was really beginning to diversify into a weird and wonderful ecosystem, encompassing genres as disparate and walled-off as dance rock, vaudeville, funk metal, and even hip-hop. It had yet to really break through to the mainstream, which, especially in America, was dominated by hedonistic, hard-partying hair metal bands who played up their macho posturing for all it was worth. So it’s probably no surprise that many of the pre-Nirvana big names in alt-rock came from across the pond. The UK was developing an indie scene all its own, of course, and parts of it were already beginning to filter into charts all over the world. And in 1990, one of its most well-remembered standard-bearers would release an influential, era-defining masterpiece, one with the deceptively simple title, “There She Goes”.

“There She Goes” is widely considered the signature song of influential British rock band The Las. You wouldn’t think there was much to this twee little jangle-pop song. Sure it’s catchy and it’s got a nice jangly guitar whose melody definitely sticks into your brain. But the song wasn’t an immediate success. It was originally released in 1988, but it would take a re-issue two years later for it to really begin picking up steam. But once it did, it couldn’t be stopped, and the song’s unapologetically British take on rock music would soon prove influential to a whole generation of musicians in the ‘90s, all of whom would lead the charge into a new rock aesthetic that would eventually be called Britpop.

And yet, the most popular cover of this song comes not from the gloomy cliffs of merrie old England, but from *country music,* of all things. In 1999, pop rock act Sixpence None The Richer, fresh off the success of their mega-selling self-titled album, released their version of “There She Goes” in the summer of 1999. And it was also a decent-sized hit, going on to become the best-charting version of the song in America and even hitting the Top 40 of the Hot 100. That may not seem like much, but for a cover version, especially one released this recently, and especially considering Sixpence were a mid-tier band who’d only released one other hit song before this, that was a big damn deal.

What about the song was so great that it was able to succeed in two otherwise completely opposite genres? Well, I can’t contain this feeling that remains, so let’s do a deep dive and find out, once and for all, where she’s going.

  
  
**The original:**

As much as we tend to equate the US and UK music scenes, thinking of them as part of the same shared musical ecosystem, the truth is that there’s a *world* of difference between the two sides of the Atlantic. At some points, their histories more or less converge, hence the ubiquity of the term “British invasion”, of which there have been several throughout music history. Yeah, there are times where British music proves especially fertile for crossover appeal in America. But there are also times where British music (and I am using “British” in a very loose sense here) has struggled to break through in the US, and you’ll hardly see any British artists on the charts. So when I talk about a certain period in music history and it deals with American bands or American trends, you gotta take my insights with a grain of salt–i.e., that’s not necessarily what may be happening in the UK.

And if we’re talking about that, then there’s perhaps no period in which the two sides of the Atlantic were more different than the late ‘80s.

In America, the late ‘80s is often considered an extremely overpolished time for music, dominated by bombastic trends like hair metal, Latin freestyle, new jack swing and loud oontz-oontz club pop from producers like Stock-Aitken-Waterman and Jimmy Jam & Terry Lewis. The popular narrative is that by 1992, all this glamour and hedonism would be swept away as the alternative revolution took hold, the rise of grunge forever changing the face of popular music. And those trends were certainly present in the UK, but their alternative revolution happened a lot sooner, and was a lot more widespread too. While early alt-rock was mostly confined to college campuses and other scattered underground scenes in the US, in the UK it was in the public imagination as early as the mid-80s, when guitar-driven acts like The Smiths began increasingly pushing back against the synth bands and new romantics of the era.

The Smiths proved to be the most influential UK alternative rock band of the ‘80s, and their emphasis on jingle-jangle guitars shifted the tides of British rock away from densely-layered synths and doofy hair to actual guitar rock, a lot of it throwing back to the songwriting and playing styles of British invasion acts from the ‘60s. And because they were from Manchester, the success of the Smiths and other Manchester bands like New Order revitalized the Manchester music scene, leading to the whole “Madchester” craze of trippy, dance-inflected alternative rock which became one of the biggest trends of late ‘80s British rock. But the Smiths’ success produced a domino effect pretty much everywhere in the north of England.

We’re gonna circle back a bit on Manchester later in the piece, but today, our story centers not on Manchester, but in Liverpool, which had already had a burgeoning post-punk and new wave scene in the early ‘80s with bands like Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark, Echo & The Bunnymen, A Flock of Seagulls, and The Mighty Wah! But in the late ‘80s, there was a band that took inspiration not from any of the contemporary trends in indie rock, but from Liverpool’s proud tradition of ‘60s Merseybeat music.

The La’s were a four-piece alt-rock band that had initially formed in Liverpool in 1983, but they wouldn’t solidify their lineup until 1987. The band originally had a different frontman, but eventually as time went on and their dynamic solidified, one member eventually arose as the band’s clear leader and creative force–rhythm guitarist Lee Mavers, who soon became the band’s clear figurehead as he began to dominate their songwriting process. Now, the thing you have to understand about Lee Mavers is that he is an absolute perfectionist. Music history is littered with the bones of perfectionist musicians, of course, so the fact that I’m singling him out should tell you the frankly *insane* degree of his perfectionism. Because he wasn’t just any musical anal-retentive–his standards were so exacting, so astronomically huge that he made Billy Corgan, Axl Rose and Prince look like wishy-washy doormats. He apparently once refused to use equipment that wasn’t covered in “authentic 1960s dust”, that’s how unreasonable he was.

The primary result of this perfectionism is that the recording of their debut album was a tortuous affair, with multiple mixes being discarded left and right because Mavers didn’t feel that the producers were adequately able to capture the sound he wanted. In fact, to Mavers, they *never* attained the specific sound he wanted, not even on the final record which came about from those sessions. Yeah, that’s another thing–the band took about two or three years to fully complete the recording process for their debut. They were already releasing demos and even singles off the album throughout 1988 and 1989, but the finished record wouldn’t come out until October of 1990.

And the fact that there was even a release at all was miraculous, the result of some very thorough hand-wringing after multiple re-recordings and shuffling around scores of acclaimed producers, some of whom had worked with the biggest and most legendary names in music, but none of whom were able to live up to Mavers’ vision. The details are spotty as to what went down, and Mavers claimed that the album was a rush job that went against his artistic integrity. Whatever the case, they were only able to cobble together a final mix by bringing legendary producer Steve Lillywhite into the fold. But even that wasn’t enough for Mavers, who disavowed the final mix because it didn’t capture the specific sound he’d envisioned. At that point, you just kind of have to shake your head in frustration, because the final mix sounded brilliant. It’s hard to put much stock in Mavers’ claims of phoning it in considering how cohesive and fully-realized it sounded. And people largely agreed; despite the length of time it took to record the album, it racked up tons of critical acclaim and even managed a modest chart presence in the States, which was a big deal for a pre-Nirvana jangle pop act.

In fact, the La’s weren’t just successful and acclaimed, they were *influential.* How so? Well, like I said, they were from Liverpool and came up at a time when most of the rest of the UK indie scene was coming from Manchester. The Madchester or “baggy” sound of the time consisted mostly of guys in gigantic shorts dropping E and making music that sounds like what it does when you drop E–a lot of club stutter-beats and psychedelic dance-rock fusions. It was a very dense, layered sound, and a very modern-sounding one at that. That was in stark contrast to what the La’s were doing, which was throwing back to a simpler, more back-to-basics time when British bands wrote very catchy but direct three-chord pop songs with a rock edge. And I guess that must have been a breath of fresh air for the British rock press, because for a time, they were basically treated like the next Beatles. I’m not kidding, they were frequently compared to the Fab Four all the time in the press.

But despite their retro inclinations, they were arguably ahead of their time. Just look at their aesthetic–casual striped tees, mop-tops and unibrows, with a healthy dose of British teeth, and a distinctly British songwriting sensibility. Who else does that remind you of?

That’s right, the La’s debut album may have been single-handedly responsible for the rise of Britpop through the mid-90s. It took some time for it to happen, of course; by 1991, Madchester was still the dominant indie genre in the UK, but as the biggest names in that scene began to flame out, suddenly, a whole generation of bands influenced by the La’s retro-rock sensibilities and borderline patriotic sound began to take over the British musical landscape. You could very much make the case that the La’s are essentially Britain’s answer to the Pixies, in that they basically wrote the sound of the ‘90s in their respective countries.

But even though they wrote the future, they wouldn’t be around to enjoy it, because the La’s never released a second album. Mavers basically disowned their debut after it came out, and by the time the band got back to the studio for the next album, he was in complete control of the recording process, which means that basically nothing got done for many years. The planned second album underwent numerous re-writes and re-recordings, none of which bore any fruit, and as the band eventually crumbled under the weight of Mavers’ perfectionism, Mavers himself became more and more of a recluse, eventually dropping out of the public eye and becoming notoriously hard to reach. It wasn’t exactly a Syd Barrett-level decline, but it produced a similar effect in that Mavers basically passed into rock music legend as yet another “lost genius”, and with his return to music becoming increasingly less likely, it seems that that elusive second album will remain a vain dream of the future. But considering how acclaimed and titanic a figure Mavers is based off the strength of just *one* album, it certainly speaks to just how good that album was.

Although to be fair, its most popular song definitely played a role in enshrining that legend.

“There She Goes” is a perfect pop song. There’s really no other way to say it; it’s a hypnotic, insanely catchy pop rock jam that lodges itself instantly in your brain and never lets up. It’s amazing that this song only has one chorus repeated over and over again, with no verses and one part which can barely even be called a bridge, because even with that in mind, it’s still *stuffed* with hooks. That opening riff is already enough to carry the day, but then that chorus hits, delivered by Mavers’ perishing alt-rock whine, it sounds *immaculate.* But it’s in the confluence of all these factors that the song really soars, because those hooks come together gloriously in a symphony of melody. It’s one of the few songs I can listen to over and over again and never get sick of.

And it’s a mind-destroyingly simple song, too. It’s literally just *‘there she goes / there she goes again / racing through my brain / And I just can’t contain / this feeling that remains”,* which seems straightforward enough, but that hasn’t stopped people from speculating something much darker. Notably, one of the most persistent rumors about the song is that it’s about Mavers’ addiction to heroin, especially because of that *“pulsing through my veins”* line in the second chorus. To be clear, that is not true at all; the band have always categorically denied it, and though Mavers eventually did develop a heroin addiction, it happened in the ‘90s, years after “There She Goes” was written.

But I can see why people might think that, because it’s hard to wrap your head around the fact that a song this simple could be this powerful. That hook, that chorus, it’s just undeniably, titanically huge. But more than that, people can’t help but read addiction into the song because of how *desperate* it sounds. The big reason why this song doesn’t need verses or a proper bridge is because Mavers is having a hell of a powerful daydream. Of course the song is repetitive; the narrator dreams of this girl everyday. But that’s *all* he does. Is he going to act on these daydreams? Of course not. She’s just gonna keep running through his brains, pulsing through his veins, and he’s not gonna do a damn thing about it because he’s absolutely paralyzed by inaction. And he’s well aware of that fact, hence his pained desperation as he longs for this girl; he’s *trapped* in a vicious cycle entirely of his own making. This song may sound upbeat on the surface, but you can definitely read some undertones of horror lurking beneath if you were so inclined.

And to be fair, the song is deceptively simple in other ways besides just lyrical subject matter. It’s actually a really easy song to play–that opening riff was one of the first that I learned on the guitar. But that confluence of sounds that makes it soar is incredibly difficult to reproduce, and is actually pretty easy to fuck up. You’d think this song would be easy to try and reinterpret, but I have heard a surprising amount of shitty or inexplicable covers of this song. You know why? Because absolutely *every single* element in this song is essential to its power. And by that, I mean literally every single one; you cannot remove, or even modify, a single component of the song, or it collapses like a house of cards almost immediately. Every piece works together like a phalanx marching lockstep in perfect formation. In that sense, it’s not surprising that the guy behind the song was such a perfectionist, because that’s an insane level of attention to detail. For that reason, I’d go so far as to say it’s one of the most difficult songs to cover.

So with that in mind, was Sixpence up to the task of attempting to cover this very delicately constructed song? Well…

  
  
**The cover:**

Okay, so I’m gonna try to do something I’ve never tried to attempt on this blog before–to talk about a genre that I’m not quite sure actually exists. But if you were there, you might recognize it.

For those of you who were around in the late ‘90s and early 2000s, you might remember a specific type of pop-rock sound that was prevalent on pop radio, *especially* if you watched a lot of romcoms or teen movies. It’s hard to describe what it *was,* exactly; whether it was even a rock genre at all or just a very guitar-driven form of pop. All I can tell you is that it was a very catchy, very scrub-clean and polished form of rock-inflected pop music (or pop-inflected rock music, depending on who you ask) which was halfway between the Backstreet Boys and blink-182, delivered by guys in bucket hats and girls in preppy outfits, not to mention an endless parade of frosted tips. It’s a very Y2K aesthetic, is what I’m saying, and it’s also an extremely loosely-defined genre, containing acts whose sounds could also be more properly classified into other genres, like pop punk, power pop, post-grunge, roots rock, coffee shop folk and other singer-songwriter-y genres, except that their sound *isn’t quite* any of those things.

We didn’t really have a name for this genre until around 2020, when Billboard started using the term “Minivan Rock” in an article listing off the Top 50 songs in this genre (a very useful resource for helping define this genre and identifying which acts fall into this umbrella). I’m not quite sure how prevalent the term has become outside of Billboard, but it’s a pretty useful name that captures the sound’s core aesthetic, the same way “yacht rock” caught on as a perfect descriptor for that late 70s-early 80s soft rock sound popularized by the likes of Michael McDonald and Christopher Cross. And in a way, the minivan rock sound functions in a similar way to yacht rock as a transitional sound; just as the rise of yacht rock coincided with the overall shift towards polished, high-gloss sounds in the ‘80s, so did minivan rock function as a sort of gateway from the droopy nihilism of ‘90s suburban culture to the earnest candy-colored angst of the 2000s.

Like most modern rock trends of the past quarter-century, the minivan rock sound ultimately originates from ‘90s alternative rock, especially its softer sister genre, adult alternative. Now, the history of alternative rock throughout the ‘90s is one of gradual dilution. As time went on, more and more of the genre’s weird edges were sanded off for public consumption, with minivan rock being its final hollowing out. Even adult alternative still bore traces of the left-field kookiness that made it so distinctive, but much of minivan rock’s style and aesthetic felt like a mishmash of every single trend in 90s rock mashed together into one undefinable sound, which is perhaps why it eluded categorization for so long. But if nothing else, it was a reliable staple of Top 40 stations, especially among listeners who were turned off by the aggressively sexual TRL acts and the snotty immaturity of the pop punkers.

And from this scene, we get Sixpence None The Richer.

Sixpence None The Richer are a Texas band, and though they’ve since had a revolving spate of members since their original breakthrough, they were a five-piece band during their peak years in the late ‘90s. They put out a bunch of records in the early to mid ‘90s, most of which went nowhere for reasons I’ll get into later, and it wouldn’t be until they released their third record, a self-titled album, when their career took off. But it didn’t happen instantly, either; that album was released in late 1997 and the band only began releasing singles off it in the fall of 1998. But it would take a strategic inclusion onto a series of TV and movie soundtracks before its lead single, “Kiss Me”, was finally able to take off–first on the soundtrack of teen movie *She’s All That,* and then on the third season of the then white-hot teen drama *Dawson’s Creek.* The result was that by the summer of 1999, “Kiss Me” had vaulted all the way to the #2 spot on the Hot 100, though it certainly took its sweet time getting there.

And honestly, it’s no surprise that the song’s success was buoyed by teen dramas, because “Kiss Me” is teen drama fodder of the highest degree. I mean, just look at what it’s about–it’s a song about a girl overcoming her shyness by inviting her crush to kiss her, set to dreamlike pop-rock instrumentation which evokes starry night skies over gray-green fields of grass. It’s as if it was specifically engineered to hit every generic prom song cliche ever. A lot of people compared the song to the work of early ‘90s twee acts like The Sundays, and I do hear it, but it also reminds me of another prom staple from the early ‘90s:

In fact, this is how I would characterize Sixpence’s sound in general–they sound like a folksier, more palatable version of The Cranberries. But, as it turns out, there’s one other major element influencing their sound that I have yet to address. I’m not sure how many of my younger readers know about this, but Sixpence were actually a Christian band.

Y’know, I honestly didn’t know that Sixpence were out and about Christian until I started writing this article. I mean, I knew Sixpence were often associated with Christian music, but I thought that it was mostly the press lumping them into that category because of their lyrical subject matter or quasi-religious lyrics, because that was a surprisingly common recurring element of most Minivan Rock bands, how many of them were either religious or heavily connected to religious music genres. Acts like Creed, Lifehouse and Switchfoot would invoke a lot of Jesus-y imagery in their music and others like the observant Orthodox Jewish brothers Evan & Jaron would refuse to perform shows and book touring slots if it conflicted with the Sabbath or their celebration of the High Holy Days. I thought Sixpence were in a similar situation, but nope, they actually did make explicitly Christian music, often invoking explicit Christian imagery and singing about God. Even their band name is a reference to C.S. Lewis’ book, *Mere Christianity.*

Look, I am a Christian and I grew up in the church, so I’ve been exposed to a lot of CCM and worship music. And while I have nostalgic affection for that kind of music and I did derive much of my religious experience from worship sessions, as a music critic I can’t deny that artistically, most Christian rock sucks *as music*. The core issue that plagues the genre is that it’s often made from the perspective of people who’ve found the solution to all their problems in the form of God, and while that’s great for them if they feel that way, it doesn’t make for very great *art*. There’s no human emotion or tension or conflict in there, no acknowledgment of human pain being felt in the *moment*. In fact, it demands that you set aside your negative or pained feelings because Jesus is supposed to have swept it all away already. The purpose of Christian music isn’t to express or process human emotion, so all you get is this uber-polished, scrub-clean sound that’s all frosting and no cake, and whose lyrical subject matter often feels more like sermons than genuine expressions of human emotion. It’s also why CCM has so much overlap with minivan rock, because they’re basically the safe, digestible, lowest common denominator equivalents of their respective genres.

To be fair, though, Sixpence’s CCM roots don’t seem to have negatively impacted their music that much. I’ve sampled some of their Christian songs, and while they still do have some of that moralistic posturing in some of their lyrics, in general I didn’t get the sense that they were preachy in any way. Their faith factors into their music pretty organically as authentic expressions of their belief. So as far as Christian rock goes, they’re fine. But I can still sense a bit of the characteristically milquetoast CCM polish on them. There’s a seeming reluctance to really commit to their chosen genre, which is why, barring obvious hits like “Kiss Me”, they feel like Cranberries or Sundays-lite instead of really being their own thing. That’s not to say they don’t have talent, of course; only that they’re a little too polished for their own good.

And that’s nowhere near more evident than in their cover of “There She Goes”, which became their second big radio hit in the US.

Like I said, “There She Goes” is a difficult song to pull off because of how intricately constructed it is, and to be fair to Sixpence, they do seem to get that. For the most part, they disturb as little of the original as they possibly can, opting to preserve the original arrangement and only changing the key it’s set in in order to accommodate lead singer Leigh Nash’s voice. It’s a pretty decent arrangement, and it emphasizes all the right things about the original–the melody, the backbeats, the pretty guitar arrangement, and the echoes in the final chorus, all of which are essential to the song’s hypnotic power. It’s a commendable attempt.

But no, it doesn’t quite live up to the original, not because it’s necessarily bad, but because it’s way too *polished*. Sixpence’s twee, scrub-clean delivery clashes with the ratty, decidedly unpolished aesthetic of the original. On an instrumental level, the La’s version was made special because of how simple and stripped down it is; it’s that straightforward simplicity which allowed its constituent elements to shine and that hook to soar as high as it did in the first place. Sixpence’s version, by contrast, layers the song thick with strings and emphasizes the background vocals, and even those relatively minor changes make the song feel overstuffed because they detract from the already rock-solid foundation underneath. There’s already so much going on beneath the hook that they really didn’t need to buoy it with additional layers of sound.

And while Leigh Nash has a beautiful voice, it’s not well-served by “There She Goes” because that’s a song about passive longing, a daydream by a hopeless schmuck who can’t find it in himself to actually go after his love interest. While Nash can pull off that sort of passivity, let’s face it, she has the voice of a siren. Hence her confident pose in “Kiss Me” where she doesn’t really have to do anything because she knows the guy will come to her anyway. That’s certainly not the impression you get from the La’s version, where you basically know that this guy won’t get the girl unless he gets off his ass. Nash sounds too happy, too enthusiastic, to really convey the searing desperation that the song is supposed to exude. It’s an impression that you can’t escape, especially not if you’ve watched the music video, where Nash can’t help but make the bubbliest facial expressions this side of Colbie Caillat. She never hits on any of the subtle tension that made the original such an earworm, and the end result is it’s just not as memorable.

  
  
**The verdict.**

It’s not a bad cover, certainly… but perhaps it’s a less special version of the original. And y’know what? That’s fine. Not all covers have to outshine the original. And considering which song we’re talking about, it’s a wonder Sixpence came away with a half-decent version of “There She Goes”. (Seriously, listen to the [Boo Radleys’ cover](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d16IFCRU7RY) if you want a truly awful version of the song). Maybe it’s not a version that would’ve impressed Lee Mavers, but at the very least, it captured enough people that it went on to become the second best-remembered version of the song. That’s certainly something to write home about.

Like Loading...

### Related

[COVER ME BADD: ‘I Love You Always Forever’ (as covered by Betty Who)](https://intheloop929.wordpress.com/2019/01/27/cover-me-badd-i-love-you-always-forever-as-covered-by-betty-who/ "COVER ME BADD: &#8216;I Love You Always Forever&#8217; (as covered by Betty&nbsp;Who)") In "Cover Me Badd"

[COVER ME BADD: ‘The First Cut Is The Deepest’ (as covered by Sheryl Crow)](https://intheloop929.wordpress.com/2019/05/31/cover-me-badd-the-first-cut-is-the-deepest-as-covered-by-sheryl-crow/ "COVER ME BADD: &#8216;The First Cut Is The Deepest&#8217; (as covered by Sheryl&nbsp;Crow)") In "Cover Me Badd"

[COVER ME BADD: ‘Lady Marmalade’ (as covered on Moulin Rouge )](https://intheloop929.wordpress.com/2018/08/05/cover-me-badd-lady-marmalade-as-covered-on-moulin-rouge/ "COVER ME BADD: &#8216;Lady Marmalade&#8217; (as covered on  Moulin Rouge&nbsp;)") In "Cover Me Badd"

[Widgets](https://intheloop929.wordpress.com/2023/01/29/cover-me-badd-there-she-goes-as-covered-by-sixpence-none-the-richer/# "Widgets")

Design a site like this with WordPress.com

-->